# Simple OTP
Contributors: brendanoconnellxwx  
Tags: development, one time password, page protection  
Requires at least: 6.4  
Tested up to: 6.4  
Stable tag: 1.0  
Requires PHP: 8.0  
License: GPLv2 or later  
License URI: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.HTML

Protects selected pages on your WP website with a one-time-password system

## Description

Protects selected pages on your WP website with a one-time-password system. The best use-case is for users who have control over their own email domain. 
This is because the main way to allow/disallow users in the system is by email domain. You can open the system up to all kinds of attacks by simply allowing all 'gmail.com' (for example) email accounts

## Usage notes

### OTP Plugin Options

#### Reset the plugin by deactivating and then reactivating:

The settings of the following - the WP pages generated by the plugin, the DB table created by the plugin; and the Cron jobs associated with clearing the DB -
are only set when the plugin is activated. That means that if you would like to make changes to any of these areas, 
please make your changes, deactivate the plugin and then reactivate the plugin to see your changes.

#### Cookie Usage:

In order for this plugin to function properly on your website, the cookie `PHPSESSID` needs to be a whitelisted or 'strictly necessary' cookie. 
This is only necessary if your site has a plugin that handles/cleans cookies. The logging in feature will not work if this cookie is not correctly whtelisted

#### Allowed Email Domains:

Example format in the setting page: "gmail.com", don't include @ sign. Not intended to be open to everyone. Could create large demand on your email service if not taken care of well.  
Future work will be to create other ways to manage allowed users

#### HMAC Encryption Server Secret:

This must be a randomly generated string of numbers and letters at least 32 characters long and no longer than 64 characters.  
> The secret key for HMAC computation. The key can be any length. However, the recommended size is 64 bytes. If the key is more than 64 bytes long, it is hashed (using SHA-256) to derive a 32-byte key.

#### ReCaptcha:

This plugin can use ReCaptcha to mitigate malicious users taking advantage of your site. You can set up a ReCaptcha account to create a server key and a site key [here](https://www.google.com/recaptcha/admin/enterprise)

#### SMTP: 

This plugin makes use of WordPress' `wp_mail` function. So setting up your SMTP service can be done on our options page and will be used to issue emails from the plugin. If you already have an email service configured make sure that the names of the attributes in your `wp-config.php` file match these names: `SMTP_HOST`, `SMTP_AUTH`, `SMTP_PORT`, `SMTP_USER`, `SMTP_PASS`, `SMTP_SECURE`, `SMTP_FROM`, `SMTP_NAME`.


### Privacy Statement

#### Types of Data We Collect

We temporarily store your email on the server session but it is immediately deleted once you have inputted the OTP code

#### Third-Party Access To Data

We do not give your data to any third-party services

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Where can I suggest a new feature or report a bug?

Please use [the issue tracker on our GitLab repo](https://github.com/simpleotp/simpleotp) as it's easier to keep track of issues there, rather than on the wordpress.org support forums.


## Changelog ##

### 1.0.0 (xx February 2024) ###
* Initial release